# HCCPC: Final Project for R Programming 
I wanted to learn programming in order to understand how it can improve informational services. In Spring 2021. I took an R Programming course where I was introduced and learned many of R’s features in statistical computing and graphing. While it was a huge learning curve, it was really neat to learn how R could visually transform data. My primary focus of this package was to transform my personal datasets from Hillsborough Community College’s Plant City library in order to provide the user with functions that quickly present visual graphics related to our library’s statistics. 
# Package Features and Datasets
The aim of my final project was to utilize the following packages to visualize HCCPC’s stats: readxl, dplyr, tidyr, tidyverse, ggplot2, and wordcloud. 
The first dataset, ILL & ICL, covers Interlibrary Loans and Intercampus Loans. Interlibrary Loan is a service where a patron from HCCPC can request to borrow an item that is owned by another library in Florida; Intercampus Loans are similar but a patron from HCCPC can request to borrow an item from one of HCC’s other campuses. In this dataset, I wanted to take a look at how COVID-19 has affected the amount of ILL and ICL requests we’ve been receiving by comparing our data between the 2018-19, 2019-20, and 2020-21 academic years. 
The second dataset, Patron Count, analyzes if COVID-19 has affected the number of patrons that have visited HCCPC's library between the 2018-19, 2019-20, and 2020-21 academic years. Finally, the third dataset, Services Word Cloud, transforms survey data we’ve collected of library services and resources students’ value into a word cloud. The word cloud will assist in advocating our importance to college administrators by visually representing the services and resources students highly value that are available at the HCCPC library. 
